# JSON Parser

I recently got back into film photography and after getting frustrated with how to keep up with details of each roll and the shots on them, including how to manage the scanned images in LightRoom Classic in terms of the metadata, I went in search of something to help and ran across the incredible ExifNotes. As great as it is though, there are things I want to track that it doesn't support. 

I have plenty of programming experience but since I don't have experience (yet) with Android development I decided to take advantage of the skills I do have and the fact that ExifNotes will write out metadata for a roll in JSON, putting a Python script together to generated my own ExifTool command lines. 

This was thrown together quickly so it's got plenty of room for improvement but for now it gives me what I need. 

The core of this approach is to add the elements that I want included in image metadata into the Note field for the roll. The format I settled on is using YAML; it's relatively simple, only depending on white space and indentation to create nested data structures. I have a template pinned in Google Keep that I cut and paste into the Note field when creating a new roll record. 

Because some of the metadata elements I care about are not standard EXIF (or other tags supported by exiftool and LightRoom), I use an approach recommended by others online, stringing name/value pairs in the UserComment tag. For now, the extra metadata I need is at the roll level so I just use the Note field at the frame level for a description of the image and it's written out with the ImageDescription tag. 

See the example JSON output and YAML template. I've also included versions of exiftool commands generated natively with ExifNotes and as generated by this tool.


At some point, I may take a dive into Android app development at which point my goal would be to add features to the app that make this tool obsolete. 

## Workflow

1. Capture information on the roll and each frame while shooting (or soon after).
2. Once the film is developed and scanned, store the images on my computer. 
3. Export the roll metadata to JSON. 
4. Copy the JSON file into the folder on my computer where I stored the scanned images from the roll.
5. Run the python parser to generate exiftool commands.
6. Cut/paste the exiftool commands into terminal.
7. Import the images into LightRoom Classic. 

## Usage

    Usage: python exifnotes_json_parser.py [OPTIONS] [FILENAME.JSON]
    Options:
    -h, --help                  Print help text
    -v, --verbose               Verbose mode (for now, just in exiftool commands)
    -x, --ext=EXTENSION         Set the file extension (jpg, jpeg, tif, tiff)
    -a, --artist=ARTIST         Set the artist name
    -c, --copyright=COPYRIGHT   Set the copyright string

## To Do

- Add support for filename patterns (the code is hard-coded for *nn.ext)
- Add support for a YAML config file capability (see code fragment)
- Update to support including additional user-defined metadata tags in UserComment
- Clean up and more fully comment the code